ever since that first experience i felt
like there needs to be a change in the
health and fitness industry because it's
all about macros and calories and
weight loss and supplements and how to
get the body and if you get this body
then all
your problems will go away and then then
you'll fit into society and then
people will love you and then you'll
love yourself and i i wish that were
true
i really do
hey everybody welcome to another episode
of health theory i
am here with the fit to fat to fit
maestro himself drew manning
drew welcome to the show tom bill you
dude it's always a pleasure to be on
thank you for having me back on
dude my pleasure what the hell though
are you thinking
why are you doing this again uh such a
good question
so here's the thing tom 2020 has been
such a year of radical
change right whether people like it or
not things are changing we are changing
as a society as a culture
uh as a world so fit to fact if it was
my original
first journey of gaining weight on
purpose back in 2011. i put on 75 pounds
in six months
and that was the first time i've ever
experienced what it's like to be
overweight because my whole life i grew
up in shape i played football and i
wrestled since i was little
and i as a personal trainer i couldn't
connect with my clients
in a sense where i couldn't understand
why it was so hard for them just to
eat you know live a healthy lifestyle
i'm like you guys it's so easy for me
why
why is it so hard for you so anyways
this idea popped up in my mind and so i
i i jumped on it and decided to do it
and i put on 75 pounds of fat
in six months and it was one of the
hardest most humbling experiences i've
ever been through
but i learned so many valuable lessons
from it because it shifted my perception
of how i viewed transformation and then
from there
it totally shifted my branding and how i
helped people more so on the mental
emotional side
of transformation versus just the
physical side and um
for me that's where i felt ever since
that first experience
i felt like there needs to be a change
in the health and fitness industry
because it's all about macros and
calories and
weight loss and supplements and how to
get the body and if you get this body
then all
your problems will go away and then then
you'll fit into society and then
people will love you and then you'll
love yourself and i i wish that were
true
i really do um but you know like i was
saying 2020 is a year of radical change
and i feel like i have an opportunity to
make it even more impactful
more educational more inspirational
because now people can follow me as it's
happening
back then there was no facebook live all
right there was no insta stories it was
just
my facebook posts from time to time that
was it and i feel like if i could do
this again
in 2020 as a 40 year old my message of
empathy
which is what my main thing is about
that's what my brand is about is
bringing
empathy first to the fitness industry
and then from there we could talk about
diet and exercise and supplements and
those kinds of things
but no one cares how much you know until
they know how much you care first and i
truly believe that especially in this
industry
and i feel like if we want to help
change people in this industry
i feel like let's try empathy why not
this this time
we need empathy in this world more than
ever and i feel like in the fitness
industry
it's an industry that lacks empathy
people who are larger are judged they're
looked at as lazy or
or weak or less than they don't have the
willpower or the discipline and i feel
like that's just not true and it's not
fair
and i feel like this is a vehicle to
bring my message of empathy
and then also i turned 40 to your advice
called fit fed to 40
that demographic we all know you know as
you get older people are like oh my
hormones my metabolism is changing well
let's put that to the test let's do this
together i'm going to gain the weight
and then come january 2021 i'll hold
your hand we'll do this journey together
so that's
those are the reasons in a nutshell man
it's
so interesting this idea the idea of
empathy is
i like that a lot i want to though go
back to
why there's so much um i will say
inherent shame to being out of shape
where even if nobody else were heaping
it on you
i think people will keep it on
themselves and one of the things i found
interesting about the first time you
went on this journey was
that you were paranoid about the way
people were looking at you without even
knowing if they were actually looking
at you some kind of way and i'm curious
why do you think people struggle so much
when they're out of shape just in and of
themselves i think it's
it's our programming from the social
media the movies we watch
the tv shows the magazines
and i feel like some people have
experience being treated differently in
society
i think for men it's a little bit
different it's okay to be a little bit
pudgy and to be
a little bit bigger but for women
especially i think women have it way
harder than men in our society because
maybe someone made a comment maybe it's
from their mom or from their dad or from
their siblings about their body
and at some point in time you know we
bought into that myth
that i am only of value if my body looks
a certain way and if
i don't then you know i don't fit in and
people will make fun of me and i think
it starts from a very young age i have
two daughters that are 9 and 11
and i'm super careful about how i talk
about my body and their body
in front of them because i think it
starts at that age and it's
it stems from you know whether you like
it or not your parents or even your
grandparents of how they viewed
their bodies and i don't think it it
happened until probably
you know the 20th century when we put
more emphasis on fitting in and looking
a certain way
and um i think people buy into that myth
at some point in time
and then from there i think that's where
the self you know shame and
even self-hate stems from is because
they bought into that myth at some point
now how do you talk about your body and
what you're going through with your kids
i'm super curious yeah i did a post
about this a couple months ago and it
was really popular because you know how
i talk to my daughters and how
their mom talks to them is super
important we never make it about their
body image
we never make it about losing weight or
having you know or being skinny
we always talk about health and so you
know when we talk about foods
i don't like to label foods good or bad
for them but what i try and say is like
hey these foods
will probably make us feel better and
eating this junk food is probably going
to make us feel worse
and it's really interesting tying this
into what i'm doing now they see that
firsthand they get to see their dad
struggle eating these foods which they
think is fun they're like yeah yeah
i want that i'm like but look what it's
doing to me i'm taking a nap
two three times a day and i'm grumpy and
i'm moody
you see how this is playing into it so
it's not so much about my belly growing
or it's not so much about
you know them gaining fat or losing fat
it's about what's going to make them a
better basketball player they like
basketball you know they're into
skateboarding now what's going to make
you better skateboarder what's going to
make you
better at roadblocks right even like the
video games that they that they play
i try and make it about that rather than
body image and
this is what i learned from my first
journey my body image back then was my
self-image
and if i could help my girls realize
that they are more than their bodies
that they are not just their bodies um i
feel like
then growing up they won't be as as
obsessed or attached to their body image
as their self-image so we talk about you
know the other talents that they have
whether it's singing whether it's
dancing whether it's how smart they are
at at school or their ability to um
you know even play a video game really
well like i think a couple times too
when they've overcome fears of what
riding a bike
doing the monkey bars um you know little
things that they didn't think they were
good at at first
letting like reminded them of those
moments when they overcame fears and how
brave they are
so those kinds of things you know
throughout their their life
is is constant i think constant
reminders to them
of what they can accomplish not just
with their bodies but also with their
amazing minds
do you worry at all about being so
afraid to put any pressure on them that
they won't take their bodies seriously
that's a good point but yes and no
because i think you could go to extreme
on
on both sides of it right and i feel
like the way we approach it is very
balanced where you know they do know
that their bodies are important which is
why we teach them about health and why
we teach them about what it's like to
feel good
but then also i've given them learning
experiences where they felt what it's
like to eat a bunch of junk food and
guess what
they felt like crap and that experience
helped shape their belief of like all
right
maybe i shouldn't eat 12 twinkies in one
sitting you know
maybe just one you know from time to
time and they don't eat twinkies but i'm
just saying in general
um so i think i feel like we do we have
a good balance but
dude being a parent is freaking hard
because you think you're doing things
right and i don't care
how perfect you think you're doing
things i think kids are just this
amazing learning tool to let you know
just how much you need to grow as a
human still
talk to me more about that what do you
mean that because i'm assuming
any sort of disturbance you create in
their psyche was not done on purpose are
you saying that
you worry that if you haven't dealt with
something
and you process sort of out loud or live
in a way that they'll then interpret
in a way that's ultimately going to lead
to a negative outcome yeah and it's
based off of my experience of how i view
my parents
because how i assess my parents now that
i'm 39 years old i look back i'm like
they did this they did that that caused
me to do this that it shaped me in a
certain way so i'm like all right now
i'm the parent
this is what i'm going to do differently
thinking okay well i'm not going to do
what they did that messed me up now i'm
going to do all the things that i know
how to do
but at the end of the day my girls still
throw tantrums or they they fight with
me and i fight back with them and so
there's these constant reminders of like
yeah you think you're doing things right
but
who knows it's it's a it's one of those
things where you could check all the
boxes and
you know show that you're doing things
what you think is is right
but kids are very surprising they're
their own person so no matter how well
how formulated how well formulated your
approach is
they're gonna surprise you and they're
gonna throw you curveballs and that's
the beauty of being a parent in my
opinion of like
okay well this is happening let's try
this and see if this works you know or
take away their phones or maybe limit
their
their phone time or all these different
techniques and
each one is is so different from you
know i have two
girls they're so different from each
other so what works for one doesn't work
for the other
that that's the crazy part to me man
it's like you might even nail it with
one of the kids but then yeah the other
one struggles or you might nail it with
one aspect of their personality over
here
and then it doesn't work over here but
then what's working over here then isn't
working over there it's ah
that that's really really rough now one
thing that i find intriguing about you
so for anybody that doesn't know your
story you come from 11 brothers and
sisters
if i remember right so obviously big
family i'm guessing one of the ways you
stood out was
through your involvement with sports
wrestling football i think
and i'm curious if you think about
because i'm i'm
really focused on this idea of body
image and what constructs that and if
you think there are nudges into
things like either sports or
weightlifting or something hiking
something that will give them an
exciting relationship to their
physicality
that might then allow them to
recontextualize it instead of just an
asset of beauty
but something else as well yeah and
that's why i'm open to them
exploring you know um like i said right
now their thing
is basketball but for the other one um
she likes more dancing and
ice skating and so we allow them to kind
of go through those experiences rather
than saying hey
like for example if i had a boy my
mentality before i had kids
growing up playing football was like hey
if i have a boy he's playing football
from this age i'm gonna coach him
he's gonna he's gonna work out whether
he likes it or not you know that that
whole approach with my girls i've kind
of learned there's a good book called
strong fathered strong daughters i
highly recommend it to any
girl dads out there and i think for me
and
those other girl dads it's important to
let your daughters explore what they
want to do instead of put pressure on
them to fit in like hey you got to be a
cheerleader hey you got to do this
i'll support them whatever they want to
do but i feel like
there have been some nudges from me
knowing how important health is
to try something that's physical a sport
of some type
versus just video games and watching
netflix all day
and i feel like as a parent you got to
get creative sometimes and just say
instead of just saying well one day
she'll pick what she wants to do
maybe i put her in things purposely and
see if she likes it or not if she hates
it i'll take her out but if she loves it
maybe that's her thing and she never
would have known that had she
if she didn't have that experience yeah
totally now
talk to me about um
is there such a thing as like an innate
driver in your mind
to be in shape or to look a certain way
or do you think it's
all external coming in yeah so a grown
up a family of 11 brothers and sisters
all my brother older brothers played
sports and
football and wrestling right and so i
saw them as a little kid
and they had muscles and i'm like man
for some reason that was so cool and
growing up in the whole
arnold schwarzenegger era like seeing
him in movies i'm like man why like
conan the barbarian i'm like i want to
be like that guy
so i think those experiences shaped my
beliefs of what i wanted to fit into so
from a very young age i was working out
wanted to lift weights wanted to to
build some muscle and that carried over
into into my sports and so i think
now being 39 years old having done one
fit to fit experiment
and and luckily having that
self-awareness now knowing that i am
more than my body
there is still this part of me that
loves to
yeah i look good but i love just the
feeling of being healthy and now that
i'm doing this
second experiment that's what i missed
the most i would choose
feeling healthy any day over having the
body now that i've experienced this
now two times i think that's what
sometimes people miss they're like
i want the body i don't care how my
health is i'll
do whatever it takes to get that body
thinking that's gonna but i think as you
get older you get wiser
you realize that your body might not
look that way forever and
what what what good does it do one thing
that was really interesting to me when i
really got lean was and this goes back
to you know how much of this is external
versus internal
no one ever told me what having muscle
felt like
so i never thought of it it wasn't some
external pressure that was on me it
wasn't even a concept
that i had and then one day i after
working out like a demon and getting
lean
i reached across myself like this and
realized that my pec was hard
and i was like whoa that was so [__]
cool
i was like that's so rad and then you're
like there's something about palpating
yourself when
you're lean that feels good like you get
this burst of like whoa that's cool
and palpating yourself when you put on
fat that doesn't
and that that isn't me like nobody
in my life had ever touched me and said
you feel squishy
never ever ever but when i would touch
myself when i got heavy i was like ooh
like there was something that felt
intrinsic about it
now the reason i harp on like this is
not so that people will develop body
dysmorphia and become obsessed with
getting lean
it's to get to understand
why the diet industry is as big as it is
why people fret over this as much as
they do
why people are so drawn to what you're
doing why empathy is so
powerful in all of this because on the
other side it's like
i wish that there was nothing pushing
you internally
to want to look better and feel stronger
and
for guys anyway to feel harder but yeah
it is and it's there and if you ignore
this it's the same as ignoring doing
hard things
you just won't ever get to the place
that you could get to where that sense
of emptiness
lack of fulfillment goes away because
people think it's going to be money they
think it's going to be their body in and
of itself it's not
it's doing hard things to get a result
that matters
and by matters i mean part of it is that
intrinsic push
yeah i think one of the interesting
things i'm noticing during this journey
that kind of is um
has to do with what you're talking about
is is i went from one extreme being
super healthy to being
super unhealthy to the other stream and
man i i kind of forgot how hard it was
mentally emotionally physically i'm like
damn this is a lot harder than i
remember it being
um but it's so interesting because going
from that extreme to that extreme of
course i'm going to notice all the
differences and all the major changes
that are happening
but let's say someone has been living in
the unhealthy world for a long time
that becomes their norm that's their day
in and day out they drew everything
you're talking about
like that's my life but they don't
notice that huge shift and change
because they've never been on the other
side of it so
i'm like man if i could give someone the
feeling of being healthy or of being
lean like you're talking about if i
could just give that to them for a
moment
they might then be like man that's what
it feels like because they don't know
any different they're like
i feel okay like i don't feel like i'm
dying but
they don't really know what they're
missing and so for me to go from this
extreme to that extreme i'm noticing it
every single day and it's way harder
than people think it is
to lose your health like that um but
this is where transformation gets so
more complicated than people think
because people are like yeah
you should have this drive so therefore
just do it but what people don't realize
is
is self-sabotage self-worth those kinds
of things keep people from from actually
doing it because they feel like you know
what i don't deserve this i'm a failure
i suck at life and there's a lot of
people that have bought into that myth
from a very young age and now they're in
their 20s 30s 40s and like
you know it's too late for me or this
self-sabotage kind of mentality which
carries over into others
go a little deeper about self-sabotage
for me how do people end up there when
it comes to body and exercise
so inside of all of us we have this
little uh you know negative
self-critic all the time saying you're
not going to be able to do this that's
going to be too hard for you you're
going to quit you're going to give up
and from a very young age we've kind of
taught ourselves that through experience
like
you tried something and let's say you
sucked at it or you gave up after walks
it got hard
and then that builds this this little
negative uh self-critic inside your head
constantly reminding you of those
moments those experiences from the past
letting you know like yeah it's cute
you're trying for this but
guess what we know you you know that we
know you
you're going to go back to this way and
so people in the moment they're like
nope this time i'm going to willpower my
way through it
i got this i can do this you know two
weeks in three weeks and they're like
damn this is so hard i want this i feel
like i want this food
their body almost fights back against
them and that negative self-critic never
goes away
it's always constantly there to remind
them like you know what
you are going to screw up and then that
moment when life happens
stress gets in the way and they're like
you know they had a hard day at work or
with their spouse
or finances hit them really hard or
something happen they're like you know
what screw it
give me the beer give me the pizza like
and and then
the second that happens that negative
self-critics there is like see
i told you so and they're like they're
convinced
they're convinced that no matter how
hard they try they can never accomplish
what their goal is
because of life experience and so man
this is where transformation is so much
more mental and emotional than just
saying hey here's your meal plan here's
your workout
here's your supplements you know you
just do it and then you'll look this way
then you'll be happy
but i think this is my hope is that
it's time for change like 2020 is a year
of change let's bring some change to
this industry
where it's been the same thing over and
over and over again to really help
people on the mental and emotional side
overcome those challenges overcome that
trauma that has kept them from
you know from really truly living a
healthy lifestyle consistently and help
them overcome the self-sabotage
the the emotional eating the addiction
um and that self-worth that sense of
self-worth so that they do feel worthy
to be healthy because that's what keeps
people back is like yeah their body
wants to do these things
it wants to be healthy but they just a
lot of people just don't feel
like they're worth it or they're worthy
to to to really live that
that healthy lifestyle that we're
talking about how do people develop
self-worth so it starts with
self-awareness
you know knowing who you are i think
honestly becoming the observer of your
thoughts
what happens is you know as we grow up i
think we but
we become attached to our thoughts we we
become attached to our stories
and we become attached to our emotions
and so in those moments
we're just you know being pulled in all
these different directions based off of
how we react to situations
and the biggest key to overcoming any
kind of addiction or any kind
of you know you're trying to transform
any part of your life it's taking a step
back
and becoming the observer of those
thoughts and when you become the
observer of those thoughts in those
moments you can kind of see
like a movie playing out in front of you
what's happening what you know what
emotion is triggering you to
gravitate towards this food or this drug
or this alcohol
and you can then thoughtfully respond in
those situations but the problem is that
we
don't have that self-awareness yet
because we're just like on the go
the second we wake up we look at our
phones we're being pulled in all these
directions
it's all about self-reflection so
meditation getting out in nature
finding ways to really just not judge
your thoughts that's so hard for people
because they have these thoughts those
thoughts become stories those stories
become their reality
and then they react to those stories
throughout their life and it's just like
man if we could just learn to
observe you know just for a second in
those moments of stress in those moments
of like
reaction where you want to grab the food
if you could just learn to observe and
say okay here's what's happening
i'm getting i'm getting triggered here
my spouse is doing this my kids are
doing that
okay there's the food normally i would
go for it but now
when you have that self-awareness now
you can thoughtfully respond and be like
okay do i really want to go down this
road i'm going to eat the food but this
is what's going to happen afterwards
so maybe in that moment we choose the
higher
road and say okay now i'm in more more
in control
of my thoughts and reaction do you have
tools and techniques for people
developing
that self-awareness like journaling or
um what does that look like
so there's a list of a few things one
some type of meditation practice
whether you are a monk or not some type
of meditation practice
or what do you call it thinkitate right
like
that type of practice where you you can
just
sit with your thoughts and just let them
be don't judge them don't attach
yourself to them
that's the most important thing and then
two is journaling three i would say
would be a gratitude list
to you know re wire your brain to look
for things to be grateful for
um and then a positive affirmation
practice so
saying positive words about yourself to
yourself whatever that looks like you
know it doesn't have to be
stuart smalley from saturday night live
you know we all know that clip
it doesn't have to be cheesy like that
but it does feel cheesy at first but
it's really powerful if you can be
consistent with it
and then from there getting out in
nature you know as much as possible
wherever you live
i think is really important for us to
kind of just sit back reflect
you know if you've ever been like in
front of an ocean in hawaii like man
this is so beautiful and you just
observe
right and so those kinds of things are
the list that i would recommend for
anyone
wanting to truly transform but you know
has
struggled with the willpower right and
so i would recommend those things
instead of just do this workout and do
this exercise and eat this diet
what do you think the um need for or
maybe you don't think there's a need but
what what do you think the role
of doing hard things is for self-worth
it it develops that that belief in
oneself first
and foremost so believing that you can
do hard things like
the hard part is people are like okay
i'm gonna go 100 miles
and you've never ran 10 miles or a
marathon
and then you go and you try and you fail
and you're like man see i didn't i
couldn't do it
what if you just started with one thing
like hey let's make our bed today
every single day this week that's can be
hard for some people
but maybe by doing that then they're
like okay i believe that i can make my
bed every single day and then from there
it's like okay
i'm gonna turn the water on cold in the
shower for 30 seconds
and that's another small thing and then
they're like okay that sucked but i'm
gonna keep doing it anyways
so you find these things that suck but
they're small things at first
and then from there you build and you're
like okay i'm gonna eat vegetables every
day this week
that might suck that might be hard for
some people and that builds the
confidence that instead of saying all
right i'm to get skinny in 30 days
i'm going to do this diet why not start
small and little baby steps first and
foremost so that you start to develop
that self-confidence that you can do
hard things
and then once you believe that then you
can go outside of your self-limiting
beliefs
and try maybe 100 miles like like i did
and i never thought i would be able to
run 100 miles
but then it grows from there and then
you realize you can accomplish harder
things that are outside of your
self-limiting beliefs
and that's where it becomes really
powerful talk to me about
your journey to running a hundred miles
was it your brother that read
can't hurt me yeah we both read at the
same time
and he was the one who after reading it
was like dude i wanted 100 miles and
we've done kind of extreme things before
his brothers
but nothing like this crazy so we
attempted it last year i remember i text
you that i was gonna
run 100 miles or attempt it and here's
the thing i got 80 miles
done so i didn't accomplish my goal of
doing 100 miles in 24 hours
but then i thought man i never knew i
could do 80 miles in 24 hours
holy [__] maybe maybe if i train for
this
maybe i could really pull this off and
so this year i brought on friends like
iron cowboy and zac bitter to help
actually help me train for this because
i'm not an expert in running i suck at
running
i've always hated it ever since i played
football that was a punishment you
your punishment was to run it wasn't
anything
fun or happy to do and so i was like
okay this year i'm gonna train for it so
it took seven months
to train properly adjust my diet and my
lifestyle to go on these longer runs and
i was gone for three hours four hours
some
saturdays and sundays wake up at four
a.m you know
and in the middle of night doing these
long runs and this year
you know i was really determined to do
it but then covet happened and so we
kept pushing it back and pushing it back
and i'm like you know what
screw this i'm just gonna go do it in my
own not backyard but just like 10
minutes down the road i found a little
path
set up the course little five five mile
loop you know two and a half miles down
and back
i had my base camp had some friends and
volunteers helped me out
and i'm like i'm just gonna do this by
myself and i just went out there and did
it one day in june in the middle of
summer here in utah which is freaking
hot as hell
and it was i struggled to make it
through
um but i did it and in that moment i'm
like damn
i want to sh i want to show people that
look i don't expect you to go out there
around 100 miles but
what can you do that's outside of your
limiting beliefs
that you haven't tried yet because
you're too scared and so for me that was
100 miles
dude that's amazing i actually love it
more
that you didn't have an official race or
anything like that that you
just got sick of putting it off there's
something in that mindset that i think
is extraordinarily powerful walk me
through so you do the 80 miles which is
technically a failure
what are you saying to yourself in that
moment
you know there was there was two sides
of me because the old drew
was very critical the self-discipline
like hey you failed at this therefore
you are a failure i know we talked about
that in our first interview
and that kind of sided me i was aware
that it's there but then the other side
of me was like damn
look what you did you did 80 miles in 24
hours you should be damn proud of
yourself
and so those two things combined uh
in a way was like a healthy balance for
me to push myself to want to do it again
to say you know what
i think i can do this again if i
actually train properly and
i hate running dude i don't think i'll
ever do it again but it was really cool
to say that i did it you know what i'm
saying
for sure now put me in your mindset
you're running 100 miles
um seems like it would actually be more
difficult doing it on a
track that's that short how how did you
deal with
the times where i'm sure you wanted to
just stop like hey
nobody is forcing me to do this like no
i don't know if i quit
why how did you keep yourself focused
what were the actual words you were
saying in your head uh well
there's a couple things it was the words
but also the people that showed up to
support me there was people that ran
certain parts of it with me and having
that companionship
throughout my girlfriend was there a
couple of friends showed up to run a
couple laps with me
that was really motivating the other
part and this kind of carries over into
my fit to fed to 40 journey
there was this other part in my head
that said look this is gonna suck
it sucks right now this is gonna this is
uncomfortable this feels like hell but
guess what
all this hell all this pain is temporary
and what happens is people get so
trapped in the moment
and they think their current situation
is their final destination
and i constantly reminded myself that my
current situation of how bad the sex my
feet
my knees my back like everything was was
was super painful i just reminded myself
that this is 24 hours of my life this
will be over
soon and this pain this all this stuff
is temporary and so that's
the mentality i'm carrying over into
this this fat gain phase of four months
to remind myself like look
yes i don't feel the best i don't look
the best
um this is way harder than i thought it
was gonna be and it's way harder than
people think it is but
all this uncomfortableness and this pain
i just have to remind myself look this
is all gonna be temporary and it's all
gonna be okay in the end
now one thing that i'm excited about
with the way that you're doing it this
time is that you're doing different
diets and i'm super curious what have
you done
keto already yes so do you want to talk
about that really quick yeah i want to
go into
all four of the diets that you're going
to do or have done
yeah so keto paleo vegan vegetarian i
wanted to show people educate people on
how not to do them because let's be
honest when people dive into keto
they're
they don't do the research like oh yeah
butter bacon and cheese cut out the
carbs
i got this you know i'm saying and so i
wanted to show people how not to do them
first
actually show people hey you can gain
weight you know
on keto on paleo and vegan vegetarian no
matter you know
if you just jump into it you just can't
expect to lose weight you have to know
what you're doing so with keto i did it
for a week
and here's the results which is so
interesting and i'm currently on paleo
this week
um i lost two and a half pounds which is
insane i was eating 500 calories a day
what
yeah 500 calories a day i lost two and a
half pounds
but there's a big butt there gained one
percent body fat
and my in my waist went up one and a
half inches
so this is what i wanted to show people
i was eating dirty keto food so all the
low quality dairy you can imagine all
the diet sodas all the
low quality like bacon and salami and
and lunch meat
and all the keto cookies and treats and
all that stuff that exists out there
eating a lot of that food and i was in
ketosis still
no in my life not possible no way at 5
500 calories you
actually were posting ketones so 0.5 was
the highest it got up to
so yes let's put it into you know
reference here
0.5 was the highest but i it was usually
between
you know uh 0.3 when i woke up and then
by the end of the day we get up to 0.5
but um
but my glucose levels so i'm tracking my
my glucose on my cgm device right here
this is what the interesting thing was
as much as i love keto and
and i definitely don't advise people to
do the dirty version of keto
my glucose levels that energy throughout
the day was way better
having that level that flat level of
insulin throughout the day like
i slept better um and like i said my
weight went down but i'm doing my blood
work too and i'll get the results back
soon to see how my blood work changed
so that's the keto that that already
happened i'm currently in the paleo
phase where i'm just
eating you know just a [__] ton of paleo
foods you know paleo cookies and paleo
waffles and all that stuff but
still some whole foods to show people
like look you can eat
healthy food and still gain weight and
then i'll do the same thing with vegan
and vegetarian i'll do my blood work
before and after
to see the changes that happen week to
week and then we'll do a comparison you
know of
my weight my body fat um you know my
measurements but also my blood work to
see
week to week you know the changes and
then come january
i'll be showing people look if you want
to do these diets here's the correct way
or healthier way to do them
and the quality of food is important
that's the other thing i'm trying to
educate people on is like look you can
do dirty keto and lose weight
for sure easy if you stay at a caloric
deficit same thing with veganism you
could eat oreos
all day and if you're in a certain
calorie range you can lose weight
but is that healthier do you feel better
and that's the thing i'm trying to show
people is like
we know people that are super lean super
fit but they eat a bunch of junk food
and it fits their macros and so they
look good
but are they really you know the
healthiest version of themself
define that what do you like if you're
getting lean
in what way would one be getting
unhealthy
it's a so that's where blood work comes
in and no one really cares about blood
work they just care about body fat
percentage so
get your blood work done see see if your
thyroid is functioning properly see if
your hormones are
at optimal levels you know i think those
kinds of things are really important but
they're just overlooked because
you could have awesome blood work but
still be you know not super lean
and be like well i'm healthy like i know
a friend of mine who
most of his blood work is is good i
haven't seen all of it
but he's like 500 pounds and his
cholesterol's and normal levels and
hdl ldl all that triglycerides are
obviously really high but
what i'm saying is like it's not the end
all be all but
why don't people go off of their blood
work as much as they do
off of their their you know body fat
test man so
the notion that somebody can be 500
pounds with their blood work be in the
right ranges and look i heard you loud
and clear and i'm with you you didn't
see them all and so there may be
problems hiding it yeah but i've
actually heard people say that
getting obese is a protective mechanism
that you're pulling the stuff out of the
bloodstream to keep it from being a
problem there
shuttling it off into the fat cells now
fat as an
organ which can have all kinds of
signaling molecules that create
secondary problems like having a very
hard time actually
losing the fat um is an interesting
thing but the notion that somebody can
be quote unquote skinny fat that they
can be lean but their blood markers are
a mess man this stuff is so complicated
so complicated i'm super curious what's
happening to your testosterone levels
i haven't gotten that checked yet but if
my girlfriend was on she'd probably tell
you
she'd probably tell you brutally you
know very she'd be very brutally honest
with you
my libido has changed i do find myself
more emotional
uh which is the sign that my
testosterone is dropping i remember from
my first journey
back in 2011 it went down it got down
to the low 200s at my heaviest as a 31
year old now i'm 39 i'm so at the end of
month two
i will do my testosterone levels again
because it takes time to change
so at month two and month four at my
halfway point
i will be doing the uh all the blood
work so stay tuned for that you're
definitely going to want to see what
happens bloodwork wise with
the continuation of this journey and
then obviously comparing the diets too i
think that will be really interesting
interesting to see even though that's
the dirty version of these diets
could maybe some of my blood markers
improve or get worse we'll see
so we'll talk about all the stuff that's
what this journey of fit to at 40
there's something for everyone if you
want to geek out on the science there's
something there
if you want to focus more on the mental
and emotional spiritual side of
transformation there's going to be
something there as well
that's why i want people to hopefully
follow along this journey even though
i'm gaining weight and that part's
entertaining it's like a train wreck
you you can't not watch but the journey
back to fate
2021 i know people are going to want to
make a change because 2020
sucked for so many people and it was
really hard for a lot of people
but that's the things like hey let's do
this together let's
why not like i'll hold your hand we'll
do this together come 2021
and that's the part that i'm excited for
because i want to give people those
tools on the mental and emotional side
so that they understand this is a
complete transformation
and their perception shifts and that's
where they make some real lasting change
in their life
are you 100 confident that you will go
back to your lifestyle
that you've been at all these years
previously 100
that's my default mode and that's like
being a dad my why every day isn't to
be the fit to fit guy and make money my
wise to be the best dad i can be and i
know for me being the best dad i can be
requires
my physical mental and emotional and
spiritual health to be as
as best as it can because then i i show
up differently for them
i show up differently from my girlfriend
that's one of the biggest hardest things
about this journey is my ability to
handle stress
is so diminished because i don't have
the motivation
because i feel so lethargic i'm like
okay fine whatever okay you need this
you need that here just
let's just get rid of the stress the
quickest way possible because i don't
want to have to deal with it i've
noticed those little things start to
change where
i'm sleep deprived my sleep has sucked
because i've tried been tracking on my
whoop
my sleep is in the yellow or red almost
every single night and that carries over
into other areas of your life and the
ability to handle stress is
is way harder and that's what i want to
bring bring awareness to is like you're
not the same version of yourself when
you're unhealthy it's not just about
getting fats it's not just about that if
that's all it was
that would be cool but there's way more
other there's way more things that
happen
on the mental emotional level that you
have no idea but if you could see
you know the other areas that it's
affecting i feel like then people would
hopefully make
a change for the better yeah no question
um
so as you're going through the process
then um and you think about getting back
into shape
i know you're trying to develop this
empathy where is it that
people fall off so if you know that
you're gonna be
back on it what what is it that you have
as
a mental tool that you think people lack
yeah and it's gonna be hard in the
beginning and this is what i remember
from my first journey
those first two weeks were hell for me
even for me someone that loves being
in shape someone loves being fit i
struggled because my body fought back
against me
and so you have to realize that just
because you make good choices
doesn't mean your body is going to
follow suit and be like yeah we want
broccoli
and kale your body's going to want the
high that it got from these foods that
you have been feeding it for the past
four months four years or even four
decades so
that's the part where people are gonna
need the most help so there's here's
what helps people in those situations
one
is community a support system people
that give them a balance of a kick in
the butt every once while because we all
need that but also
empathy and letting them know that
they're worth it so that's what the
whole power of this fit to factor 40
journey is
is we are doing this journey together as
a team as a community
and so that's the first thing the second
thing is all those mental emotional
tools
and and tricks that i i mentioned
earlier meditation positive affirmations
uh a gratitude list um you know getting
out in nature going for a walk every day
uh those kinds of things as a daily
practice on top of
eating healthy and exercising i think
will help people build that
self-awareness so that they become the
observer of their thoughts
and so that's what i'm really going to
be feeding them is the meal plans and
workouts
you know those are a dime a dozen you
can find those anywhere but the biggest
thing is
the help on the mental emotional side
that we're all going to be doing every
single day as a checklist and i feel
like that's where people will
hopefully as a team as a community will
come together and shift their perception
of what success looks like in health and
fitness because it's not about getting
the body
it's about falling in love with the
process because you're worth it not
because you hate yourself and you want
to look skinny
but because you're worth it to live a
healthy lifestyle and that's the
the the switch in their head that needs
to shift and that's where these things
can help out
i know at one point you were
recommending to people to join like
support groups
and stuff so they could be around other
people that were going through the same
thing do you still do that do you
recommend therapy
like how big of a journey is it for
people to get their head right
oh man it's the biggest part but there's
so many tools it doesn't
just have to be you know a a group you
know facebook it could be
religion it could be church it could be
plant medicine it could be a breath work
it could be you know their local
crossfit gym whatever it is whatever it
takes for that person find whatever
works for you
best that helps you feel like you're not
alone in this journey
and i am open to different things for
different people
but that's the biggest part i think the
biggest component because we as humans
we need that human connection and
there's something about suffering with
other people that
it's way more motivating than just
suffering by yourself it sucks way more
you know so so that's kind of the whole
point of the second half of the journey
we'll be doing it together in our you
know facebook group and online at my
website
um so there will be this community
aspect to it and your primary attack
vector
for the back half is going to be
ketogenics
uh it'll be a mixture of ketogenic it'll
probably be more of a mediterranean
style keto which i feel like
for me and for a lot of people seems to
work better versus better than you fine
that for me
so it's gonna be more poly unsaturated
and mono and saturated fats
uh so less red meat you know less bacon
uh
less dairy because that's like i'm doing
now with with the dirty version of keto
it's kind of like yeah that works you
can lose weight on it and maybe it's
more enjoyable for you but when it comes
i think to most people's health people
tend to improve their health better on a
mediterranean style
keto where it's not just saturated fat
all day long but i think for me i feel a
ton better on higher quality you know
mediterranean
style fats inside what's actually on
your plate
so we're talking things like olive oil
um and olives
avocados are big parts of that more fish
more lean meats in my opinion doesn't
have to be the fattier cuts of steak all
the time
i think for me you know a lot of people
gravitate towards that but it's going to
be more of
the leaner meat with things like um
olive oil or avocado oil
do you just keep the lean meats
relatively low like when you say that
you're doing
a ketogenic diet are you actually in
ketosis
yes i will be in ketosis my calories
will be a lot less than what it was for
this experiment
but the cool thing with lean meats is
you can't always control the fat amount
that comes in meat
so you know if you get uh one rib eye
compared to another ribeye
the fat content can be totally different
and the calorie count could be totally
different
so if you get the lean meats and then
add in your fats then you're kind of in
control of
how much fat you're actually getting and
that's kind of my
approach my philosophy when it comes to
keto now versus back in the day i was
like all right all the fat all the fat
all the time
you know the fattier the better i feel
like yes that can work but i think if
you're trying to dial it in a little bit
you know getting the prote the lean
proteins most of the time not all the
time
but then adding in your fats you can
control how much fat is actually in that
amount of food that makes sense yeah for
sure and are you
is it a primarily plant-based diet when
you're doing that
i wouldn't say primarily plant-based but
i i'm a big fan of vegetables i do a
carnivore thing every now and then
and i actually feel great on a
short-term carnivore
but the thing that keeps me away from
doing carnivore is i just love
i love avocados i love you know some uh
some broccoli uh cooked in in butter and
salt like
i actually enjoy it i do so for me it's
it's more of a plant-based
approach like um dr will cole has a book
called ketotarian
and it's it's more of a plant based
approach to keto but
trust me i'd love my protein so i love
my animal protein
one thing i'm going to be really curious
to see so i so i used to wear a
constant continuous glucose monitor
probably worked for about six months
it was so interesting i really really
enjoyed it but one thing that
shocked me to my core was that i had an
impossible burger
and it spiked me almost as hard as cold
stone ice cream
uh i was like i'm sorry what it was the
craziest thing
in the world so it'll be interesting to
see how easy it is for you to spike your
blood sugar even going vegan like you
said you can have oreos
on a vegan diet and then obviously then
showing people how you can do it well at
the end that'll be super super
intriguing
are you going to be publishing all of
your blood results as you go
yeah it'll be on my website as i go kind
of showing comparisons throughout so you
can kind of see
side by side what's happening to my
blood work i think the glucose the
ketones
the sleep data will all be on on one
site or
or a one page of the website so that's
not up there yet but it will all be
available because the the end goal with
all this is to have
everything available to everyone you
know so they could see
everything that's happening to my body
my mind how it's affecting all of that
so all that information will be on my
website eventually in a format that is
easy to you know easy on the eyes dude
where where can people go
to follow you on this crazy journey yeah
so either fit2fat240.com either
4-0 or spill it out um that's my website
you could follow
you know the the updates throughout and
then my uh social media is all fit
number two
fat number two fit and that's facebook
twitter instagram tick tock all that
stuff so
yeah make sure to follow along and pray
for me because
this is hard man it is amazing well dude
thank you so much for coming on the show
i hope that everybody follows this
journey
and if you haven't already be sure to
subscribe here and until next time my
friends
be legendary take care thank you guys so
much for watching and being a part of
this community if you haven't already
be sure to subscribe you're going to get
weekly videos on building a growth
mindset
cultivating grit and unlocking your full
potential